The Joe Rogan experience.
Did you see that story in California? By the way,
about how they're going to try and reteach math?
Did you see this one from the New York times? Yeah. The so teach math.
So they're going to figure out how to teach math differently.
They said that they don't want to have,
they they're getting rid of some of the objective standards with regard to math,
because math is,
and they want to get rid of the idea that there are naturally gifted children.
They said,
they're not allowed to say that they're naturally gifted children anymore.
When it comes to.
Math with the New York as well, then they.
Give it their finger to the magnet schools over there too. But gifted programs.
Yes, they, they, they, the gifted programs cause it's too many Asian kids. Ah,
America's white supremacists. All the Asians were succeeding. I love.
That narrative. So no, what are they trying to do with that?
So it was this article in the New York times.
And I'm trying to remember all the details they said,
you're not allowed to talk about naturally gifted kids.
You're not supposed to reward right. Answers or punish wrong answers.
Yeah.
So it was like a big kind of parents revolt going on in California over this
because the idea was that there was too much racial disparity in math
performance in California. And so change, change the standards,
which by the way, I can't think of anything more racist than that.
That is so super racist.
It's like not enough black kids are scoring well on the test.
That means that black kids, I guess, are too dumb to do well on these tests.
Get rid of the test, like look or alternatively,
there's an explanation where kids need to study more.
Well, you ha you only find out if someone knows things, if you test them,
it's the only way you find out how else do you find out? You have to like, say,
show me how to do this problem. And then the kid tries and he goes, oh,
that's not how you.
You do it. By the way. I think this is like entire,
I think the scam that is college is predicated on a society trying to get around
the basic truth that you just said, which is we can tell by test scores,
whether you know, things that aren't good at things. Well.
I mean,
obviously there's some tests that favor people that have grown up in certain
environments because you have more access to certain kinds of information,
but once you teach people and then you test them,
the only,
there's only one way to find out whether or not they know the information they
have to be tested,
like the idea that you're going to eliminate tests and somehow make things more
equitable or more even is kind of.
Actually what you're gonna do is gonna make people more racist is what you're
gonna do. And the reason for that is because Thomas Hall talks about this,
he talks about different types of discrimination. And he says,
there's group discrimination where you base your perception of an individual on
the group data that is available. And then there's like discrimination,
discrimination, which is, you know,
that a person is smart and they're of a group you don't like.
And so you just ignore the fact they're smart because they're from that group.
So the, the two examples that he gives, right,
is let's say that you're walking down the street at night and it's in an inner
city neighborhood and there's a black guy walking down the street and he's
wearing a hoodie and he's a young guy, 17 years old.
Are you going to cross the street or not?
If the opposing example is an 80 year old white woman, right? And he says, well,
you know, based on the group statistics,
you're probably going to cross the street more often.
If it's the 17 year old black kid, then if it's the 80 year old white woman,
now let's say that that 17 year old white kid, that 17 year old black kid,
you know, you know the kid, he's a nice kid. If you still cross the street,
that's what makes you like a super giant racist. In the former case,
you're just using the group data available.
The problem is that using group date available very often is wrong, right?
What if the 17 year old kid isn't nice kid, right?
You shouldn't be doing that either. You need specific data.
Test data is specific data.
So let's say now that you are an administrator at a college and you're not
allowed to use test data, all you know,
is that on average black kids score lower than white kids, right?
So who do you let it? How do you make that decision?
Wouldn't it be better for black kids, for you to have the test data?
Cause you know,
which black kids definitely deserve to get in as opposed to which ones don't
deserve to get in. So you start using stupid generalizations.
The whole point is more specific. Data is better,
more specific data fights discrimination.
And yet we have this whole weird idea that if we get rid of specific data,
if we get rid of test data, objective data, this is going to end discrimination.
Precisely the reverse will occur. People will start using stupid stereotypes.
The entire episode for free only on Spotify.